---
layout: post
title: the extraordinary within the ordinary
date: 2024-09-23 23:12:00-0000
description: why do many of us fail to recognize opportunities?
tags: inspirational
categories: sample-posts
related_posts: false
---

Most of us don't really feel time passing by, but look around and you'll see a couple few doing amazing things - creating, building, innovating. Yet these people are rare, maybe five percent or less of the population.

I've always wondered: "Why do most people, with the same brains and the same amount of hours in a day, miss the patterns and opportunities that only a few can see?"

It's almost like asking why only Newton saw a falling apple and questioned it so deeply that he developed an entire branch of mathematics to explain the concept of gravity. Sure, others before him had thoughts about gravity. Anyone walking past an apple tree might have wondered why the fruit fell. But most people would just move on, forgetting about it as they go about their day. Some might try to think it through later but give up when it gets complicated and abandon the idea.

Newton, though, was relentless. He invented the necessary mathematical machinery to model gravity. You might say, he had already been spending years on experiments. But it's not about having loads of time - it's about how deeply you think.

Diving just one level deeper in your thoughts can completely change your perspective and uncover new ideas. Too often, we get stuck in a loop of mediocre thought, doing random stuff without real focus.

Here's the thing: we all have the potential to be creative, craft beautiful things, and build incredible stuff. But that one mediocre thought can be like quicksand, slowly but surely pulling us down into complacency and routine. It's as if our minds get comfortable with the familiar, making it harder to break free and explore new ideas.